---
title: "08. Metasploit - Introduction"
section: "tools"
date: 2022-12-27
tags: ["metasploit"]
---

## Introduction

- metasploit is Widely used exploitation framework and it supports all phases of penetration testing, from information gathering to post-exploitation.

- Metasploit comes in two main versions:
	1. Metasploit Pro: This is the commercial version designed for task automation and management. It features a graphical user interface (GUI).
	2. Metasploit Framework: This is the open-source version that operates from the command line.

- The Metasploit Framework is a versatile set of tools used for tasks like information gathering, scanning, exploitation, exploit development, and post-exploitation. While it's mainly used for penetration testing, it's also valuable for vulnerability research and exploit development.

- Main Component:

1. **msfconsole**: The main command-line interface.
2. **Modules**: supporting modules such as exploits, scanners, payloads, etc.
3. **Tools**: Stand-alone tools that will help vulnerability research, vulnerability assessment, or penetration testing. Some of these tools are msfvenom, pattern_create and pattern_offset. 

## Modules of Metasploit Framework

helpful to clarify a few recurring concepts: vulnerability, exploit, and payload

**Exploit**: A piece of code that uses a vulnerability present on the target system.

**Vulnerability**: A design, coding, or logic flaw affecting the target system. The exploitation of a vulnerability can result in disclosing confidential information or allowing the attacker to execute code on the target system.

**Payload**: An exploit will take advantage of a vulnerability. However, if we want the exploit to have the result we want (gaining access to the target system, read confidential information, etc.), we need to use a payload. Payloads are the code that will run on the target system.

1. Auxiliary
2. Encoders
3. Evasion
4. Exploit
5. NOPs
6. Payload
7. Post

### Auxiliary

These are the programs that do not directly exploit a system. Rather they are built for providing custom functionalities in Metasploit. Some auxiliaries are sniffers, port scanners, etc. These may help you scan the victim machine for information gathering purposes. For example, if you see a victim machine is running **ssh** service, but you could not find out what version of **ssh** it is using – you could scan the port and get the version of **ssh** using auxiliary modules.

### Encoders

- Encoders in the Metasploit Framework encode exploits and payloads to evade signature-based antivirus solutions.

- Signature-based antivirus and security solutions rely on a database of known threats to detect malicious files. Encoders try to evade detection by changing the appearance of these files. However, they may not always succeed because antivirus solutions can perform extra checks beyond just matching signatures.

### Evasion

While encoders will encode the payload, they should not be considered a direct attempt to evade antivirus software. On the other hand, “evasion” modules will try that, with more or less success.

### Exploits

Exploit is the program that is used to attack the vulnerabilities of the target. There is a large database for exploits on Metasploit Framework. You can search the database for the exploits and see the information about how they work, the time they were discovered, how effective they are, and so on.

### NOPs

They are represented in the Intel x86 CPU family with 0x90, following which the CPU will do nothing for one cycle. They are often used as a buffer to achieve consistent payload sizes.

### Payloads

- Payloads are codes that will run on the target system.
- Exploits will leverage a vulnerability on the target system, but to achieve the desired result, we will need a payload. (Example : getting a shell, loading malware or launching calc.exe)

**we have different payloads : adapters, singles, stagers, and stages.**

**1. Adapters** wrap single payloads to change their format. For instance, a single payload can be wrapped in a Powershell adapter to create a Powershell command that executes the payload.

**2. Singles** are self-contained payloads like adding a user or launching notepad.exe that don't require additional components to run.

**3. Stagers** set up a connection channel between Metasploit and the target system. They're useful for staged payloads, where the payload is sent in parts. Initially, a small stager is sent, followed by the rest of the payload (stage).

**4. Stages** are downloaded by the stager and allow for larger payloads to be used.

### Post

Post modules used in final stage of the pentest , post-exploitation.

## Components of Metasploit Framework

1. msfconsole
2. msfdb
3. msfvenom
4. meterpreter

### msfconsole

This is the command line interface that is used by the Metasploit Framework. It enables you to navigate through all the Metasploit databases at ease and use the required modules. This is the command that you entered before to get the Metasploit console.

### msfdb

Managing all the data can become a hurdle real quick, which is why Metasploit Framework gives you the option to use PostgreSQL database to store and access your data quickly and efficiently. For example, you may store and organize your scan results in the database to access them later. You can take a look at this tutorial to learn more about this tool – [https://null-byte.wonderhowto.com/how-to/use-metasploits-database-stay-organized-store-information-while-hacking-0192643/](https://null-byte.wonderhowto.com/how-to/use-metasploits-database-stay-organized-store-information-while-hacking-0192643/)

### msfvenom

This is the tool that mimics its name and helps you create your own payloads (venoms to inject in your victim machine). This is important since your payload might get detected as a threat and get deleted by threat detection software such as anti-viruses or anti-malware.

This happens because the threat detection systems already has stored fingerprints of many malicious payloads. There are some ways you can evade detection. We’ll discuss this in the later section dedicated to `msfvenom`.

### msfvenom

This is the tool that mimics its name and helps you create your own payloads (venoms to inject in your victim machine). This is important since your payload might get detected as a threat and get deleted by threat detection software such as anti-viruses or anti-malware.

This happens because the threat detection systems already has stored fingerprints of many malicious payloads. There are some ways you can evade detection. We’ll discuss this in the later section dedicated to `msfvenom`.

