## SMB

### Understanding SMB

The SMB (Server Message Block) Protocol is a client-server communication protocol primarily used for sharing access to various resources like files, printers, and more on a network. Servers make these resources available to clients, allowing them to access shared file systems and printers.

It operates as a response-request protocol, meaning it involves exchanging multiple messages between the client and server to establish a connection. Clients connect to servers using TCP/IP (often through NetBIOS over TCP/IP), NetBEUI, or IPX/SPX protocols. This protocol facilitates seamless sharing and access to resources across networked computers.

**How SMB works?**

Once they have established a connection, clients can then send commands (SMBs) to the server that allow them to access shares, open files, read and write files, and generally do all the sort of things that you want to do with a file system. However, in the case of SMB, these things are done over the network.

**What runs SMB?**

Microsoft Windows operating systems since Windows 95 have included client and server SMB protocol support. Samba, an open source server that supports the SMB protocol, was released for Unix system

**what ports is SMB running on?**

>139/445

### Enumerating SMB

**Enum4Linux**

Enum4linux is a tool used to enumerate SMB shares on both Windows and Linux systems. It is basically a wrapper around the tools in the Samba package and makes it easy to quickly extract information from the target pertaining to SMB. It’s installed by default on Parrot and Kali, however if you need to install it, you can do so from the official [github](https://github.com/portcullislabs/enum4linux).

The syntax of Enum4Linux is nice and simple: `enum4linux [options] ip`

- `-U`: get userlist
- `-M`: get machine list
- `-N`: get namelist dump (different from -U and-M)
- `-S`: get sharelist
- `-P`: get password policy information
- `-G`: get group and member list
- `-A`: all of the above (full basic enumeration)

### Exploiting SMB

**SMBClient** 

Because we’re trying to access an SMB share, we need a client to access resources on servers. We will be using SMBClient because it’s part of the default samba suite. While it is available by default on Kali and Parrot, if you do need to install it, you can find the documentation [here](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smbclient.1.html).

We can remotely access the SMB share using the syntax:

`smbclient //[IP]/[SHARE]`

Followed by the tags:

- `-U [name]`: to specify the user
- `-p [port]`: to specify the port

## Telnet

### Understanding Telnet

**What is Telnet?**

Telnet is an application protocol which allows you, with the use of a telnet client, to connect to and execute commands on a remote machine that’s hosting a telnet server.

The telnet client will establish a connection with the server. The client will then become a virtual terminal- allowing you to interact with the remote host.

**Replacement**

Telnet sends all messages in clear text and has no specific security mechanisms. Thus, in many applications and services, Telnet has been replaced by SSH in most implementations.

**How does Telnet work?**

The user connects to the server by using the Telnet protocol, which means entering “telnet” into a command prompt. The user then executes commands on the server by using specific Telnet commands in the Telnet prompt. You can connect to a telnet server with the following syntax: `telnet [ip] [port]`

### Enumeration Telnet

[HackTricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/network-services-pentesting/pentesting-telnet) 

### Exploiting Telnet
**Types of Telnet Exploit**
Telnet, being a protocol, is in and of itself insecure for the reasons we talked about earlier. It lacks encryption, so sends all communication over plaintext, and for the most part has poor access control. There are CVE’s for Telnet client and server systems, however, so when exploiting you can check for those on:

- [https://www.cvedetails.com/](https://www.cvedetails.com/)
- [https://cve.mitre.org/](https://cve.mitre.org/)

A CVE, short for Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures, is a list of publicly disclosed computer security flaws. When someone refers to a CVE, they usually mean the CVE ID number assigned to a security flaw.

**Method Breakdown**
So, from our enumeration stage, we know:
- There is a poorly hidden telnet service running on this machine
- The service itself is marked “backdoor”
- We have possible username of “Skidy” implicated
Using this information, let’s try accessing this telnet port, and using that as a foothold to get a full reverse shell on the machine!

**Connecting to Telnet**
You can connect to a telnet server with the following syntax: `telnet [ip] [port]`
We’re going to need to keep this in mind as we try and exploit this machine.

## FTP

### Understanding FTP

**How does FTP work?**
A typical FTP session operates using two channels:
- a command (sometimes called the control) channel
- a data channel.
As their names imply, the command channel is used for transmitting commands as well as replies to those commands, while the data channel is used for transferring data.

FTP operates using a client-server protocol. The client initiates a connection with the server, the server validates whatever login credentials are provided and then opens the session.

While the session is open, the client may execute FTP commands on the server.

**Active vs Passive**
The FTP server may support either Active or Passive connections, or both.
- In an Active FTP connection, the client opens a port and listens. The server is required to actively connect to it.
- In a Passive FTP connection, the server opens a port and listens (passively) and the client connects to it.

This separation of command information and data into separate channels is a way of being able to send commands to the server without having to wait for the current data transfer to finish. If both channels were interlinked, you could only enter commands in between data transfers, which wouldn’t be efficient for either large file transfers, or slow internet connections.

**More Details**

You can find more details on the technical function, and implementation of, FTP on the Internet Engineering Task Force website: [https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc959.txt](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc959.txt). The IETF is one of a number of standards agencies, who define and regulate internet standards.

### Enumeration FTP

[Hacktricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/network-services-pentesting/pentesting-ftp) 

### Exploiting FTP

**Types of FTP Exploit**
Similarly to Telnet, when using FTP both the command and data channels are unencrypted. Any data sent over these channels can be intercepted and read.

With data from FTP being sent in plaintext, if a man-in-the-middle attack took place an attacker could reveal anything sent through this protocol (such as passwords). An article written by [JSCape](https://www.jscape.com/blog/bid/91906/Countering-Packet-Sniffers-Using-Encrypted-FTP) demonstrates and explains this process using APR-Poisoning to trick a victim into sending sensitive information to an attacker, rather than a legitimate source.

When looking at an FTP server from the position we find ourselves in for this machine, an avenue we can exploit is weak or default password configurations.

**Method Breakdown**
So, from our enumeration stage, we know:
- There is an FTP server running on this machine
- We have a possible username
Using this information, let’s try and bruteforce the password of the FTP Server.

**Hydra**

Hydra is a very fast online password cracking tool, which can perform rapid dictionary attacks against more than 50 Protocols, including Telnet, RDP, SSH, FTP, HTTP, HTTPS, SMB, several databases and much more. Hydra comes by default on both Parrot and Kali, however if you need it, you can find the GitHub [here](https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra).

The syntax for the command we’re going to use to find the passwords is this:

```bash
hydra -t 4 -l dale -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt -vV 10.10.10.6 ftp
```

|SECTION|FUNCTION|
|---|---|
|`hydra`|Runs the hydra tool|
|`-t 4`|Number of parallel connections per target|
|`-l [user]`|Points to the user who’s account you’re trying to compromise|
|`-P [path to dictionary]`|Points to the file containing the list of possible passwords|
|`-vV`|Sets verbose mode to very verbose, shows the login+pass combination for each attempt|
|`[machine IP]`|The IP address of the target machine|
|`ftp / protocol`|Sets the protocol|