## NFS
### Understanding NFS
- NFS stands for “Network File System” and allows a system to share directories and files with others over a network.
- By using NFS, users and programs can access files on remote systems almost as if they were local files. It does this by mounting all, or a portion of a file system on a server.
### How NFS Work ?
- First, the client will request to mount a directory from a remote host on a local directory just the same way it can mount a physical device. The mount service will then act to connect to the relevant mount daemon using RPC.
- The server checks if the user has permission to mount whatever directory has been requested. It will then return a file handle which uniquely identifies each file and directory that is on the server.
- If someone wants to access a file using NFS, an RPC call is placed to NFSD (the NFS daemon) on the server. This call takes parameters such as:
1. The file handle
2. The name of the file to be accessed
3. The user’s, user ID
4. The user’s group ID
### What runs NFS?
- Using the NFS protocol, you can transfer files between computers running Windows and other non-Windows operating systems, such as Linux, MacOS or UNIX.
- A computer running Windows Server can act as an NFS file server for other non-Windows client computers. Likewise, NFS allows a Windows-based computer running Windows Server to access files stored on a non-Windows NFS server.
### Enum NFS
[Hacktricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/network-services-pentesting/nfs-service-pentesting) 

## SMTP

SMTP, or Simple Mail Transfer Protocol, is the system for sending emails. To use email services, you need both SMTP for sending and POP/IMAP for receiving. SMTP handles outgoing mail, while POP/IMAP manage incoming mail. Together, they make email communication possible.

The SMTP server performs three basic functions:

1. It verifies who is sending emails through the SMTP server.
2. It sends the outgoing mail
3. If the outgoing mail can’t be delivered it sends the message back to the sender

### Process of SMTP :

1. Your email client connects to your domain's SMTP server (e.g., smtp.google.com) over port 25.
2. SMTP handshake initiates the connection.
3. Client submits sender, recipient, email body, and attachments to the server.
4. SMTP server checks if sender and recipient domains match.
5. Sender's SMTP server connects to recipient's SMTP server to relay the email.
6. If recipient's server is unavailable, email is queued in SMTP.
7. Recipient's SMTP server verifies email and forwards it to POP/IMAP server.
8. Email appears in recipient's inbox.

### Enum SMTP

[Hacktricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/network-services-pentesting/pentesting-smtp) 




## MySQL

In its simplest definition, MySQL is a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) based on Structured Query Language (SQL).

**SQL** :
SQL stands for Structured Query Language. It's a programming language designed for managing and manipulating relational databases.

### Enum MySQL

[Hacktricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/network-services-pentesting/pentesting-mysql)

