---
title: "02. Encryption"
section: "cryptography"
date: 2024-02-20
tags: ["rsa"]
---

## In this Notes

We will Cover

- Why cryptography matters for security and CTFs
- The two main classes of cryptography and their uses
- RSA, and some of the uses of RSA
- 2 methods of Key Exchange
- Notes about the future of encryption with the rise of Quantum Computing

## Key Terms

**Ciphertext** - The result of encrypting a plaintext, encrypted data

**Cipher** - A method of encrypting or decrypting data. Modern ciphers are cryptographic, but there are many non cryptographic ciphers like Caesar.

**Plaintext** - Data before encryption, often text but not always. Could be a photograph or other file

**Encryption** - Transforming data into ciphertext, using a cipher.

**Encoding** - NOT a form of encryption, just a form of data representation like base64. Immediately reversible.

**Key** - Some information that is needed to correctly decrypt the ciphertext and obtain the plaintext.

**Passphrase** - Separate to the key, a passphrase is similar to a password and used to protect a key.

**Asymmetric encryption** - Uses different keys to encrypt and decrypt.

**Symmetric encryption** - Uses the same key to encrypt and decrypt

**Brute force** - Attacking cryptography by trying every different password or every different key

**Cryptanalysis** - Attacking cryptography by finding a weakness in the underlying maths

**Alice and Bob** - Used to represent 2 people who generally want to communicate. They’re named Alice and Bob because this gives them the initials A and B. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_and_Bob](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_and_Bob) for more information, as these extend through the alphabet to represent many different people involved in communication.

## Why Encryption is Soo Important 

- Cryptography plays a vital role in digital security by safeguarding confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity. It's used in everyday activities like logging into websites, connecting to secure servers, and downloading files. 
- Encryption ensures that sensitive information remains private during transmission and storage. 
- Compliance regulations like PCI-DSS and GDPR require encryption to protect user data, emphasizing its importance in cybersecurity. 
- However, passwords should be hashed, not encrypted, for secure storage and management, except in specific cases like password managers.

## Crucial Crypto Math

The modulo operator, represented as "%", calculates the remainder of a division operation.

### Examples

25 % 5 = 0 (5\*5 = 25 so it divides exactly with no remainder)

23 % 6 = 5 (23 does not divide evenly by 6, there would be a remainder of 5)

An important thing to remember about modulo is that it’s not reversible. If I gave you an equation: x % 5 = 4, there are infinite values of x that will be valid.

## Types of Encryption

**Symmetric encryption** : Symmetric encryption employs the same key for both encryption and decryption. Examples include DES (now considered broken) and AES. These algorithms are generally faster and use smaller keys, often 128 or 256 bits for AES and 56 bits for DES.

**Asymmetric encryption** : Asymmetric encryption uses a pair of keys: one for encryption and the other for decryption. Examples include RSA and Elliptic Curve Cryptography. Typically, these keys are known as public and private keys. Data encrypted with the private key can be decrypted with the public key, and vice versa. Asymmetric encryption is slower and uses larger keys, with RSA typically utilizing 2048 to 4096-bit keys.

## RSA
- RSA relies on a tricky math problem: finding the factors of a big number. It's easy to multiply two prime numbers, like 17 and 23 to get 391. But figuring out which two primes multiply to make, say, 14351 (it's 113 and 127) is tough.

### The attacking side

There are some excellent tools for defeating RSA challenges in CTFs, and my personal favorite is https://github.com/Ganapati/RsaCtfTool which has worked very well for me. I’ve also had some success with https://github.com/ius/rsatool.

The key variables that you need to know about for RSA in CTFs are p, q, m, n, e, d, and c.

“p” and “q” are large prime numbers, “n” is the product of p and q.

The public key is n and e, the private key is n and d.

“m” is used to represent the message (in plaintext) and “c” represents the ciphertext (encrypted text).

### CTFs involving RSA

Crypto CTF challenges often present you with a set of these values, and you need to break the encryption and decrypt a message to retrieve the flag.

There’s a lot more maths to RSA, and it gets quite complicated fairly quickly. If you want to learn the maths behind it, I recommend reading MuirlandOracle’s blog post here: https://muirlandoracle.co.uk/2020/01/29/rsa-encryption/.


## Establishing Keys Using Asymmetric Cryptography

A very common use of asymmetric cryptography is exchanging keys for symmetric encryption.

you need a little more cryptography to verify the person you’re talking to is who they say they are, which is done using digital signatures and certificates.

You can find more about it on[How does HTTPS actually work?](https://robertheaton.com/2014/03/27/how-does-https-actually-work/)
 blog post.

## Digital Signature and Certificates

### what is digital signature ?

Digital signatures are a way to prove the authenticity of files, to prove who created or modified them. 

Using asymmetric cryptography, you produce a signature with your private key and it can be verified using your public key. As only you should have access to your private key, this proves you signed the file. 

Digital signatures and physical signatures have the same value in the UK, legally.

### Certificates - Prove who you are !

**How does your web browser know that the server you're talking to is the real facebook.com ?**

> By Certificates.

Certificates are also a key use of public key cryptography, linked to digital signatures. A common place where they’re used is for HTTPS.

The certificates have a chain of trust, starting with a root CA (certificate authority). Root CAs are automatically trusted by your device, OS, or browser from install. Certs below that are trusted because the Root CAs say they trust that organisation. Certificates below that are trusted because the organisation is trusted by the Root CA and so on. There are long chains of trust.

more about this in this [blog]([https://robertheaton.com/2014/03/27/how-does-https-actually-work/](https://robertheaton.com/2014/03/27/how-does-https-actually-work/)) .

You can get your own HTTPS certificates for domains you own using Let’s Encrypt for free.



## SSH Authentication

### Encryption and SSH Authentication
- SSH typically uses usernames and passwords for authentication, similar to logging into a physical machine. 
- However, you'll often encounter SSH configured with key authentication. This method uses public and private keys to authenticate the client. 
- SSH keys are usually RSA keys, but you can choose different algorithms and add a passphrase for extra security. 
- The program ssh-keygen is commonly used to generate key pairs.

### SSH Private Keys
- Treat your private SSH keys like passwords—never share them. If someone gets your private key, they can log in to servers that accept it unless it's encrypted. 
- Your passphrase only decrypts the key; it's not used for server identification and stays on your system. 
- Using strong passphrases is crucial, as tools like John the Ripper can crack encrypted keys. 
- Generate keys on your machine and only transfer the public key to remote servers to keep your private key secure. For temporary access, this precaution may not be as critical.

## Explaining Diffie Hellman Key Exchange
Key exchange allows 2 people/parties to establish a set of common cryptographic keys without an observer being able to get these keys. Generally, to establish common symmetric keys.

### How Diffie Hellman Key Exchange Work?

Alice and Bob want to securely establish a common key for symmetric cryptography without using asymmetric key exchange. They use Diffie-Hellman (DH) Key Exchange.

1. They each have secrets (A and B) and share public material (C). 
2. They combine their secrets with the public material to create AC and BC. 
3. These are exchanged, and when combined with their own secrets, they form identical keys, ABC. 
4. Now they can securely communicate using this key.

An excellent video if you want a visual explanation is available here. [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NmM9HA2MQGI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NmM9HA2MQGI)

## PGP, GPG and AES

### PGP
PGP stands for Pretty Good Privacy, which is a data encryption and decryption program that provides cryptographic privacy and authentication for data communication. It's commonly used for securing email communications and files.
### GPG
GPG stands for GNU Privacy Guard, which is a free implementation of the OpenPGP standard. It's compatible with PGP and provides similar functionalities for encrypting and decrypting data, as well as verifying digital signatures.
### AES
AES stands for Advanced Encryption Standard, which is a symmetric encryption algorithm used to protect sensitive data. It's widely adopted and considered one of the most secure encryption algorithms available. AES operates on fixed-size blocks of data and supports key sizes of 128, 192, or 256 bits.
