## Network Security and Network Data

### Network Security Operations

- Network security focuses on two core concept. :authentication and authorisation.
- Network security operations contain three base control levels to ensure the maximum available security management.

**Base Network Security Control Levels**

|Physical|prevent unauthorised physical access to networking device,cable boards, locks etc|
|---|---|
|Technical|Prevent unauthorised acces to network data,like installing tunnels and implementing security layers.|
|Administrative|provide consistency in security operaions like creating policies, access levels and authentication processes.|

there are two main approaches under these Security control levels.

**The Main Approaches**

- Access Control : set of control to ensure authentication and authorisation.
- Threat Control : Detect and prevent malicious activities on the network. contains both internal and external traffic data probes.

**Access Control**

- Firewall protection
- Network Access Control : **NAC** ensures a device is evaluated before it connects to the network. It checks the device's specifications (hardware, software, security settings) against predefined security policies. Only compliant devices are granted access
- Identity and access Management : is a framework of policies and technologies that ensures the right individuals and devices have appropriate access to an organization's resources (like data systems, networks, and applications).
- Load balancing
- Network segmentation : Creates and controls network ranges, segmentation to isolate the users access level,group assets to improve protection.
- vpn
- zero trust model : configuring and implementing the access and permissions at a minimum level (providing access required to fulfil the assigned role).

**Threat Control**

- IDS&IPS
- Data Loss Preventation (DLP) : Inspect the traffic and blocks the extraction of sensitive data.
- Endpoint Protection : Protecting all kinds of endpoints and appliances that connect to the network by using a multi-layered approach like encryption, antivirus, antimalware, DLP, and IDS/IPS.
- Cloud Security
- SIEM
- Network Traffic Analysis & Network Detection and Response.

**Network Security Management Operation**

|Deployment|Configuration|Management|Monitoring|Maintenance|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|• Device and software installation|||||
|• Initial configuration|||||
|• Automation|• Feature configuration||||
|• Initial network access configuration|• Security policy implementation||||
|• NAT and VPN implementation|||||
|• Threat mitigation|• System monitoring||||
|• User activity monitoring|||||
|• Threat monitoring|||||
|• Log and traffic sample capturing|• Upgrades||||
|• Security updates|||||
|• Rule adjustments|||||
|• Licence management|||||
|• Configuration updates|||||

### Network Traffic Analysis

Network security operations listed below :

- network sniffing and packet analysis : wireshark
- network Monitoring : zeek
- Intrusion Detection and Prevention : snort
- network forensics : networkMiner
- threat hunting : Brim.

**Two techniques used in traffic analysis.**

1. Flow Analysis : collecting data from network devices and analyzing it to get statistical summaries, like usage patterns or traffic trends. The focus is on high-level data (e.g., bandwidth use or device performance) rather than deeply inspecting individual packets or specific communication details.
2. Collecting all available network data. Applying in-depth packet-level investigation (often called Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) ) to detect and block anomalous and malicious packets.