---
title: "07. Intro to Cyber Threat Intel"
section: "soc-level-1"
date: 2023-01-18
tags: ["cti frameworks", "classification"]
---

## What is CTI(cyber threat intel)

- Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) is the process of collecting, analyzing, and sharing information about current and potential cyber threats.
- Cyber threat intelligence (CTI) is an early warning system that alerts organizations to potential cyber attacks.
- CTI gathers information about the digital and online dangers facing an organization.
- This information can be used to assess the severity of each threat and then form the basis of a strategy for prevention.

### Terminologies

**Data** : Discrete indicators associated with an adversary such as IP, URLs and hashesh

**Information** : A combination of multiple data points.

**Intelligence** : The correlation of data and information to extract pattern of actions based on contextual analysis.

_Information can be gathered from different sources_ :

- **Internal**
    - System Logs and Events
    - Corporate security events such as VA and incident response reports.
- **Community** :
    - Open web forumns
    - Dark web communities for cyber criminals
- **External** :
    - Threat intel feed
    - online markets
    - public sources (goverment data, publications etc.

### Threat Intelligence Classifications

- **Strategic Intel:** High-level intel that looks into the organisation’s threat landscape and maps out the risk areas based on trends, patterns and emerging threats that may impact business decisions.
- **Technical Intel:** Looks into evidence and artefacts of attack used by an adversary. Incident Response teams can use this intel to create a baseline attack surface to analyse and develop defence mechanisms.
- **Tactical Intel:** Assesses adversaries’ tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs). This intel can strengthen security controls and address vulnerabilities through real-time investigations.
- **Operational Intel:** Looks into an adversary’s specific motives and intent to perform an attack. Security teams may use this intel to understand the critical assets available in the organisation (people, processes and technologies) that may be targeted.

## CTI FRAMEWORKS

- MITRE ATT&CK
- TAXII
- STIX
- CYBER KILL CHAIN
- THE DIAMOND MODEL