## John who ?
John the Ripper is a powerful password cracking tool used by security professionals and enthusiasts to uncover weak passwords by attempting various techniques such as dictionary attacks, brute force attacks, and hybrid attacks
## Setting up
In kali or parrot you can install using `sudo apt-get install john` to install this tool.

## Wordlists
The two popular word lists we will be using as pentesters are [SecLists](https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists) and rockyou.txt word list which comes pre-loaded in most distributions like kali or parrot.

## Cracking Basics Hashes
**John functions in two modes.**
1. automatically crack hashes without specifying the format, which detects the format you are given and it performs the task automatically, but do note that this is not the best idea and it is not always reliable.

2. identify the hash and then explicitly mentioning the format of the hash which one can do with the help of `--format= `flag. Alternatively you can also use `hash-id.py` or hash identifier a python tool to identify the hash.

## Cracking Windows Authentication Hashes
- To Crack windows password we use `--format=nt`. However, for a deeper understanding, "nt" refers to "new technology," which stores user and service passwords in the operating system. The NThash is the modern format, while NTLM refers to the previous version of the Windows format for hashing passwords.

- NThash or NTLM hashes can be obtained by dumping the SAM database on a Windows machine using tools like Mimikatz. Additionally, if you have access to Active Directory, you can dump hashes from the NTDS.dit file. Pass-the-hash attacks can be successful without needing to crack the password. However, if the password policy is weak, attempting to crack NThash or NTLM hashes can be an interesting challenge.

```javascript
john --format=nt --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt ntlm.txt
```
## Cracking /etc/shadow
- To crack passwords in linux from `etc/shadow` you need to combine it with `etc/passwd` file for this john has inbuilt utility called `unshadow`
```css
unshadow [path to passwd] [path to shadow]
```

```javascript
john --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt --format=sha512crypt unshadowed.txt
```


## Single Crack Mode

- To crack passwords that are likely variations of the username, such as "john1," "john2," or "john$," you can use John the Ripper's `--single` mode. In this mode, you simply need to append or edit a file so that it contains the username and password hash. Then, John the Ripper will handle the rest, attempting to crack the password based on variations of the username.

```undefined
nano hash7.txt
```
- Change it to the following : 

```makefile
joker:7bf6d9bb82bed1302f331fc6b816aada
```
- Now Run the tool : 
```lua
john --single --format=raw-md5 hash7.txt 
```


## Custom Rules
- Most organizations mandate password complexity to thwart dictionary attacks, often requiring a mix of capital letters, numbers, and symbols. Exploiting the predictability of users in placing these symbols can aid in cracking passwords.

- Passwords commonly follow patterns like starting with a capital letter, having a number in the middle, and ending with a symbol. This predictable pattern, with familiar passwords modified by additions or alterations, is frequently used and reused by people.

- Custom rules are defined in the `john.conf` file usually located in `/etc/john/john.conf`. 

1. `[List.Rules.MY_RULE_NAME]` : Used to define the name of the rule.
2. We then use regex style pattern match to define where in the word will be modified.
	- Az - takes the word and appends it with teh characters you define.
	- A0 - takes the whord and prepends it with the characters you define.
	c - capatalized the character positionally.
3. To define the characters to be added, prepended, or included, we use character sets in square brackets `[]` in the order they should appear. These sets directly follow the modifier patterns inside double quotes "". Here are some common examples:
```
[0-9]: Includes numbers 0-9.
[0]: Only includes the number 0.
[A-z]: Includes both uppercase and lowercase letters.
[A-Z]: Only includes uppercase letters.
[a-z]: Only includes lowercase letters.
[a]: Only includes the single letter 'a'.
[!£$%@]: Includes these symbols.
```

4. We could then call this custom rule as a John argument using the "--rule=PoloPassword" flag.

```javascript
john --wordlist=[wordlist] --rule=PoloPassword [path to file]

```

## Cracking Password Protected Zip Files
1. First converts the encrypted file into a format that password cracking tools like John the Ripper can understand and work with file. We use `zip2john`.

```css
zip2john secure.zip > secure.txt

john secure.txt --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt
```
## Cracking Password Protected RAR File

1. First converts the encrypted file into a format that password cracking tools like John the Ripper can understand and work with file. We use `rar2john`.

```css
rar2john secure.rar > secure2.txt
john secure2.txt --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt
```
## Cracking SSH Keys with John
1. First converts the encrypted file into a format that password cracking tools like John the Ripper can understand and work with file. We use `ssh2john`.

```css
sudo python /usr/share/john/ssh2john.py /home/mccleod1290/idrsa.id_rsa > id.txt

john --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt id.txt
```
## Resource
openwall wiki here for knowing more about using john, some advice and to stay updated about this tool.  
[https://www.openwall.com/john/](https://www.openwall.com/john/)



