## Introduction
 We will learn three command-line tools:
- `whois` to query WHOIS servers
- `nslookup` to query DNS servers
- `dig` to query DNS servers

We use `whois` to query WHOIS records, while we use `nslookup` and `dig` to query DNS database records. These are all publicly available records and hence do not alert the target.

We will also learn the usage of two online services:
- DNSDumpster
- Shodan.io

divide reconnaissance into:
1. **Passive Reconnaissance** : In passive reconnaissance, you rely on publicly available knowledge. It is the knowledge that you can access from publicly available resources without directly engaging with the target.
2. **Active Reconnaissance** :  It requires direct engagement with the target.

## Whois
we used the WHOIS protocol to get various information about the domain name we were looking up.

WHOIS is a request and response protocol.A WHOIS server listens on TCP port 43 for incoming requests. The domain registrar is responsible for maintaining the WHOIS records for the domain names it is leasing. We can gather various info related to domain.

- **Registrar**: Via which registrar was the domain name registered?
- **Contact info of registrant**: Name, organization, address, phone, among other things. (unless made hidden via a privacy service)
- **Creation, update, and expiration dates**: When was the domain name first registered? When was it last updated? And when does it need to be renewed?
- **Name Server**: Which server to ask to resolve the domain name?

```shell-session
user@TryHackMe$ whois tryhackme.com
[Querying whois.verisign-grs.com]
[Redirected to whois.namecheap.com]
[Querying whois.namecheap.com]
[whois.namecheap.com]
Domain name: tryhackme.com
Registry Domain ID: 2282723194_DOMAIN_COM-VRSN
Registrar WHOIS Server: whois.namecheap.com
Registrar URL: http://www.namecheap.com
Updated Date: 2021-05-01T19:43:23.31Z
Creation Date: 2018-07-05T19:46:15.00Z
Registrar Registration Expiration Date: 2027-07-05T19:46:15.00Z
Registrar: NAMECHEAP INC
Registrar IANA ID: 1068
Registrar Abuse Contact Email: abuse@namecheap.com
Registrar Abuse Contact Phone: +1.6613102107
Reseller: NAMECHEAP INC
Domain Status: clientTransferProhibited https://icann.org/epp#clientTransferProhibited
Registry Registrant ID: 
Registrant Name: Withheld for Privacy Purposes
Registrant Organization: Privacy service provided by Withheld for Privacy ehf
[...]
URL of the ICANN WHOIS Data Problem Reporting System: http://wdprs.internic.net/
>>> Last update of WHOIS database: 2021-08-25T14:58:29.57Z <<<
For more information on Whois status codes, please visit https://icann.org/epp
```

- First, we notice that we were redirected to `whois.namecheap.com` to get our information. In this case and at the time being, `namecheap.com` is maintaining the WHOIS record for this domain name.

## nslookup and dig
 `nslookup` which stand for name server look up find the ip address of the domain.
 eg : `nslookup OPTIONS Domain_name SERVER`

`SERVER` : is the DNS server that you want to query. You can choose any local or public DNS server to query. Cloudflare offers `1.1.1.1` and `1.0.0.1`, Google offers `8.8.8.8` and `8.8.4.4`, and Quad9 offers `9.9.9.9` and `149.112.112.112`.

**Options** : 

|Query type|Result|
|---|---|
|A|IPv4 Addresses|
|AAAA|IPv6 Addresses|
|CNAME|Canonical Name|
|MX|Mail Servers|
|SOA|Start of Authority|
|TXT|TXT Records|

`nslookup -type=MX tryhackme.com 1.1.1.1`

****
For more advanced DNS queries and additional functionality, you can use `dig`, the acronym for “Domain Information Groper.

Usage :
```shell
dig domain_name type
dig google.com MX

# you can specify dns server also.
dig @server Domain_name type
```

## DNSDumpster
DNS lookup tools, such as nslookup and dig, cannot find subdomains on their own.
it also show other data like mx,txt and all other types of data.
[DNSDumpster](https://dnsdumpster.com/) 

## shodan.io
[Shodan.io](https://www.shodan.io/) can be helpful to learn various pieces of information about the client’s network, without actively connecting to it.
Shodan.io tries to connect to every device reachable online to build a search engine of connected “things” in contrast with a search engine for web pages. Once it gets a response, it collects all the information related to the service and saves it in the database to make it searchable.