---
title: "05. Discovering Content"
section: "web-security"
date: 2022-03-20
tags: ["recon", "osint"]
---

## What is Content Discovery

In web application security, content refers to various digital assets such as files, videos, pictures, website features, etc. Content discovery involves finding hidden or unintended resources on a website, such as staff pages, backup files, or administration panels, which aren't immediately visible. Three main methods for content discovery are manual, automated, and OSINT (Open-Source Intelligence).

## Manual Discovery 

### Robots.txt

The robots.txt file is a document that tells search engines which pages they are and aren't allowed to show on their search engine results or ban specific search engines from crawling the website altogether.

### Favicon

- The favicon is a small icon displayed in the browser's address bar or tab used for branding a website.
- Sometimes when frameworks are used to build a website, a favicon that is part of the installation gets leftover, and if the website developer doesn't replace this with a custom one, this can give us a clue on what framework is in use.
- OWASP host a database of common framework icons that you can use to check against the targets favicon https://wiki.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_favicon_database. Once we know the framework stack, we can use external resources to discover more about it

### Sitemap.xml

the sitemap.xml file gives a list of every file the website owner wishes to be listed on a search engine.

### HTTP Headers

When we make requests to the web server, the server returns various HTTP headers. These headers can sometimes contain useful information such as the webserver software and possibly the programming/scripting language in use

```bash
curl https://website.com -v
# -v switch enables verbose mode, which outputs the headers.
```

### Framework Stack

After you identify the framework(from source code/favicon etc)of a website you can locate framework's website. From there, we can learn more about the software and other information, possibly leading to more content we can discover.

## OSINT

### Google Hacking/ Dorking

Google hacking / Dorking utilizes Google's advanced search engine features, which allow you to pick out custom content.

| **Filter**  | **Example**          | **Description**                                                                 |
|-------------|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| site        | site:tryhackme.com   | returns results only from the specified website address                        |
| inurl       | inurl:admin          | returns results that have the specified word in the URL                        |
| filetype    | filetype:pdf         | returns results which are a particular file extension                          |
| intitle     | intitle:admin        | returns results that contain the specified word in the title                    |

More information about google hacking can be found here: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_hacking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_hacking)

### Wappalyzer

Wappalyzer ([https://www.wappalyzer.com/](https://www.wappalyzer.com/)) is an online tool and browser extension that helps identify what technologies a website uses, such as frameworks, Content Management Systems (CMS), payment processors and much more, and it can even find version numbers as well.

### Wayback Machine

The Wayback Machine ([https://archive.org/web/](https://archive.org/web/)) is a historical archive of websites that dates back to the late 90s. You can search a domain name, and it will show you all the times the service scraped the web page and saved the contents. This service can help uncover old pages that may still be active on the current website.

### Github

Git is a **version control system** that tracks changes to files in a project. GitHub is a hosted version of Git on the internet. You can use GitHub's search feature to look for company names or website names to try and locate repositories belonging to your target. Once discovered, you may have access to source code, passwords or other content that you hadn't yet found.

### S3 Buckets

- S3 Buckets are a storage service provided by Amazon AWS, allowing people to save files and even static website content in the cloud accessible over HTTP and HTTPS. The owner of the files can set access permissions to either make files public, private and even writable. Sometimes these access permissions are incorrectly set and inadvertently allow access to files that shouldn't be available to the public.
- The format of the S3 buckets is `http(s)://{name}.s3.amazonaws.com` where` {name}` is decided by the owner
- S3 buckets can be discovered in many ways, such as finding the URLs in the website's page source, GitHub repositories, or even automating the process.

## Automated Discovery
Automated discovery is the process of using tools to discover content rather than doing it manually.  This process is made possible by using a resource called wordlists.