---
title: "11. Web Application Security"
section: "web-security"
date: 2022-03-24
tags: ["injection", "security risk"]
---

## Introduction

**Definition of a Web Application:** 

* A program that can be used without installation using a modern web browser (e.g., Firefox, Safari, Chrome). 

**Advantages of Web Applications:** 

* No installation required 
* Accessible from any device with an internet connection

**Examples of Web Applications:** 

* Webmail (e.g., Tutanota, Protonmail, Outlook, Gmail) 
* Online office suites (e.g., Microsoft Office 365, Google Drive, Zoho Office) 
* Online shopping (e.g., Amazon.com, AliExpress, Etsy) 

**How Web Applications Work:** 

* They run on remote servers. 
* Servers provide access to web browsers. 
* They use databases to store and access information. 

**Security Concerns of Web Applications:** 

* Attackers may exploit vulnerabilities to access user data. 
* Bug bounty programs offer rewards for discovering security vulnerabilities.

## Web Application Security Risks

1. **Password Guessing Attack:** 
    - Description: The attacker attempts to discover the password by systematically trying a large number of possible passwords.
    - Method: Utilizes automated tools to test a long list of passwords against the login page.
    - Objective: Gain unauthorized access to the web application by guessing the correct password.

2. **Injection Attack:**
    
    - Description: The attacker inserts malicious code or characters into input fields with the intention of exploiting vulnerabilities in the web application's processing of that input.
    - Method: Adds specific characters and codes to the search term or input fields to manipulate the behavior of the application.
    - Objective: Force the target system to return sensitive data or execute unintended actions, such as running malicious scripts.

3. **Data Interception Attack:**
    
    - Description: The attacker intercepts sensitive data being transmitted between the user and the web application.
    - Method: Monitors the communication channels to capture payment details sent in cleartext or using weak encryption.
    - Objective: Obtain confidential information, such as payment details, by exploiting insecure data transmission methods.

### Identification and Authentication Failure

Identification involves uniquely recognizing a user, while authentication verifies that the user is who they claim to be.

### Broken Access Control

Access control ensures that each user can only access files (documents, images, etc.) related to their role or work.

### Injection

An injection attack refers to a vulnerability in the web application where the user can insert malicious code as part of their input. One cause of this vulnerability is the lack of proper validation and sanitization of the user’s input.

### Cryptographic Failures

This category refers to the failures related to cryptography. Cryptography focuses on the processes of encryption and decryption of data.

